Welcome back.
There's one final piece of the puzzle that we need with redux and something that we've been avoiding
up until this point.
You see if we go to opt out.
Yes.
You remember that we do this component did mount fetch request.
We have an asynchronous request.
We're making a request to an API grabbing their users and then finally setting that state to robots.
But how would that work in redux.
Because remember up until this point everything we've done has been synchronous because if we do the
same thing like we did with the search field it wouldn't work with fetching robots because we're sending
an action of let's say fetching robots but because that's asynchronous it's going to go off in another
world into the API.
And try and get the robots in the meantime the reducer is just going to check the robots and say there's
no robots.
Yeah because an API plant that hasn't returned yet.
Just like a promise.
So the research keeps going and doesn't make any changes because the state hasn't changed.
So how can we create actions that are asynchronous that still go through the reducer the store and then
make changes.
And this is where we use apply middleware again.
We can use something called redux phunk to handle asynchronous actions like AJAX calls.
It's a middleware that provides a get state and dispatch functions that are passed on you're able to
handle something called side effects like AJAX calls.
With this package.
So we're going to show you how that works.
First thing we want to do is install the package redux thung.
So I'm going to say NPM install redux thunk.
And by the way just like with anything there's tons of other ways to handle asynchronous action and
redux is just not built out of the gate so you need some packages.
There is other options but Redus redux thunk is the best and simplest to start off with.
All right.
We have a redux thunk now and we can't simply start using it by going to index.
Yes and with thing here we can say that we want to import something called a thunk middleware from redux.
Again you can read all about this and there are documentation on get HTTP thunk middleware.
We already know how to apply middleware to our redox app right.
We have our apply middleware function.
We can simply add the applied or not applied the phunk middleware.
And let me just put this on a new line so you can see it better.
Thank middleware to our apply middleware.
And this is order.
So it's going to go through the thunked middleware and then the logger middleware perfect.
So let's run NPM start.
And I'm also going to say this all right looks like everything is running smoothly.
We have this matter where implemented now.
But how do we actually use Well let's start with the very first steps.
The first thing we want to do is create a constant so a constant for requesting our robots.
Remember in the app dodgiest file we have this robot's array that gets populated after component did
mount with after we do the fetch call and we step state with the new users.
So the constant we can do something similar to above.
We can export Konst request robots now.
Because this is going to be a promise.
It's going to have three states.
So the first one is going to be Pandang which is the very first time that we send that request it's
going to be pending we're waiting for the promise to return.
So we'll again use the same strength here and we're also going to have two states after the pending
returns which is success
and also
this request has three actions pending success failed.
We want to keep track of.
And again this is pretty much standard with all asynchronous actions like AJAX calls.
So let's say that and the next step as we know is to create the actions using these things.
So let's go back to actions and this time instead of just importing change search field let's import
a few more things.
I'm going to import let's just copy and paste here because that's a lot of typing.
Let's go to Constance.
We're going to import pending
six SAS success and then finally
let's save.
And when you get a warning that we're not being we're not using them.
So let's create these actions now just like we did above we're going to export Konst and we'll name
this request robots and this action takes.
Hmm what's it going to take.
Well this is a little tricky but it's going to take the dispatch and dispatch.
If you remember and we go to APT.
Yes.
Is something that we use in MAP dispatch to prop's that we get from redux to dispatch the actions to
reduce our.
And when we come back here you'll see that we're going to actually pass this to our action.
So we have access to it.
But again for now just know that we're going to have dispatch and we think here we're going to do a
few things that's a little bit different than the above.
The very first thing when we request robots Well we want to dispatch the pending action so again we
can just do the standard syntax of dispatching an object that is of type request robot's pending
and the payload.
Well there's no real payload.
We just have a request pending so we can just leave it the way it is right now without a payload.
Next we have something that is a synchronous.
We need to do a fetch call.
So we have our fetch function.
And if you remember we go to APT.
Yes.
We have this API that we need to call but you also need to do the response response to Jaison all over
again.
So I'm just going to copy all of that go to actions and just copy and paste this.
So we're fetching the users we're doing the DOD then and Jaison using that Jaisalmer method on the response.
And then finally in here we have two options.
We have the DOD then and DOD catch in case there's an error or something fails.
In the DOD then we receive some sort of data which will be users.
And once we've received that we can't say dispatch we're going to dispatch what do you think we're going
to dispatch.
Well the object that is of type request robots accessed
and this time the payload for this is going to be
the data that we receive from the API and with the catch very similar.
We'll get some sort of an error and this error is going to once again dispatch
and old have a type of requests.
Robots fail
with a payload of let's give it the air that we receive.
All right.
Let me make this a little smaller so you can see so we save that and now we have our actions and this
action is a lot more complicated than the set search field.
We have a right of way when we call this action a dispatch that requests robot's pending and then we
fetch the users we receive the users and then we either have a success with the payload of the users
or us an error with the payload of air.
Finally we go into the reducers and in the redo search we know that we want to import from the contents
the same actions that we had.
So let's just go to Constance or let's go to actions and copy exactly what we have here as well.
Because we're going to need all those constants.
And now down here we're going to create a new reducer because instead of combining all these reducers
we want to make them each specific to their use case.
This reduce our worries about search robot the new reducer is going to worry about the request.
Robots and once again with the same syntax we have state that's going to Aiko equaled the initial state
and then the action that is going to have default empty object.
And within here an object or within here will have once again a switch statement that listens to action
duck type and this action that type is going to have three possible states.
One is that case is a request robot's pending in which case we return object.
Assign Again an empty object.
The state.
And then finally we're going to create a new state called is pending.
And this is pending is going to be set to
because the request robots is pending currently.
All right.
The next thing we're going to do again we're going to have a case for this time.
The success and this is going to return object to assign an empty object a state.
And this new property robots that is action that payload and also we want to change the state is spending
to now be false
because we've gotten the response from the promise
and then the third case is when there's an error.
And in that case we're going to return object to sign
state and we'll just have an air state that will create that has the action dot payload.
And once again we're going to want to change the is pending to be equal to false
and close the object and remember always with a reducer.
We want to have the variant always return the state if it doesn't match any of the criteria.
So again return state awesome.
Now you might be thinking to yourself initial state.
We have this bought requests robots doesn't care about search field.
And in this case we want to create two different initial states one for the search robots and one for
their request robots.
So let's rename this to initial state search
and create a new state in initial state robots that now has these three states that we mentioned here
that is is pending of false to start off with a robot's array that is currently empty and an error string
that is also empty.
So let's say that
and let's see some errors that we get here and we just have a little bit of a syntax error.
Because we don't need this curly bracket.
There you go.
And again we want to change the initial state.
Robots in the function to this one.
We save and everything looks good.
Let me make this a little bit smaller.
Now we have a problem.
We have to redo Sir's now and if we go to indexed.
J.S. we see that in the create store function we're just using the search robots we do sir.
So let's import now.
The other read you say that we have which is request robots and now add this into the store as well.
But how do we do that.
Well we have a function that again comes with three docs that's called combine reducers and this combined
reducers pretty self-explanatory combines all the reducers into a root reducer.
So let's do that.
I'm going to say Konst root reducer is going to equal the combined reducer.
And this is going to and accept the in an object form all the reducers.
In my case it's the search robots and request robots.
And now this Ruby douceur can be used in the store to include both reducers
that's safe.
All right.
We're almost there.
Now because we just used combined reducers.
It's something that we've mentioned before and that is if I go into apt.
Yes and scroll all the way up to map state to prop's our state now no longer has a search field as part
of its property.
Instead it's going to have two properties search robots and request robots which each have their own
properties.
So now we have to update the search robots
like this which has the property of search field.
So this is why you're most likely going to see when you're working an redox and map state to prop's.
Now the final piece of the puzzle redux thunk how does this work.
Well redux thunk is a middleware that waits and sees sees if any actions return a function instead of
an object.
What does that mean.
If we go to actions we see that this is returning an object but right here we're not returning an object
are we as a matter of fact we're not really returning anything right now.
Thunked middleware is waiting for a function.
And if ever an action that goes through it remember a middleware is just a tunnel that actions go through
and it notices a function it's going to act upon it.
So let's do that first and I'll explain in details how it works.
We first need to go to APT.
Yes.
And with thaim here we want to update a few things.
First we want to update the state to now also include the robots to have state DOT request robots dot
robots.
Again this is the state from the reducer.
There is also the is pending state again through their request robot that is pending.
And then finally the air state from once again state requests robots.
The second part and the most important part is the request robot action.
Again something that replaces this component did mount request.
The way we can do that is within here add another property that we're going to pass on and we can name
it whatever we want we'll say on request.
Robots and this is going to be a function and this function.
Remember we don't want to necessarily just dispatch.
We want to retain and return a function from it.
In our case is the request robots reduce our and this request robots reduce their or action has the
dispatch method.
All right.
I know that's a lot.
So let's just go through this one more time.
Right now we need that request.
Robots
action and this request robots action needs a dispatch method to actually dispatch these actions.
So in Abdulle Yes we first need to import our action which is request robots from the actions file and
this request robots needs to have the dispatch method.
This is the same as doing this.
And now this dispatch is going to work as long as we use redux Thankx because it's going to catch the
fact that this is going to return a function.
So if we go back to our actions we can now do this
all right what just happened well we've created a higher order function a function that returns a function.
And I know this can get a little bit confusing but a thunk.
Because now request robots is going to return again because of their functions.
This is going to imply that it's returning this it's going to provide the dispatch function to this
second layer function so that we can use it here.
Again this is something that you just have to get used to but in the end if we save this let's see if
it works.
Now I know it's the first time around so we've probably messed something up but let's shake it up.
I refresh and everything works.
We're not getting any errors.
But remember we actually need to connected to our app if we go back we can now go to abduct us and we
have all these props that we can use now.
So the component did MT no longer needs to have the fecche call all he needs is this top prop's dot
and the action that we have our requests robots on request robots
perfect.
And we also don't need the constructor anymore do we.
Because there's no more states these robots are now going to be returned as part of the props from on
request.
Robots.
So again we're going to change this state to
robots and we can also get is pending to check if is pending is true.
To render if this is true then we want to render loading.
If not we want to just render our robo friends.
So those are coming from our.
And now we only have component did mount in our app.
Let's save and go back to our app.
All right look at that.
That doesn't happen very often but I somehow managed to code without any making without making any errors.
Again that's a rarity.
Enjoy this moment.
I'm definitely enjoying it.
We see over here that we have request robots pending being fired and then success being fired again.
Let's refresh quickly.
All right.
What happens if the request fails.
Let's go back here and go to our action.
Yes.
And let's just type something wrong here we'll say like that.
Save it.
Go back and there you go.
We have request robots failed.
Very cool.
Let's fix that.
And save.
All right.
We have our app that does the exact same thing as before.
Nothing too crazy just filtering our robots.
But the only difference is that we have this amazing logging ability and it's using redux.
Very cool.
I want to go over this one more time.
And this is because it is a bit of a sticking point for most people.
Remember this request robots how it has this two functions.
The request robot right now redux.
Out of the box wouldn't understand this because we're not returning an object as it expects for an action.
We're returning a function and this function is it going to mean anything to it by adding redux thunk
middleware.
We're now listening to actions.
And any time the request robot's action gets triggered it's going to return a function and trigger redux
thunk and redux thunk is going to say oh this is a function I'm going to give you here is the dispatch
so you can actually call some actions and we can finally run our actions like this.
So we go back to our diagram we've created a system where the actions are being triggered.
They go through any middleware.
If it's a search term change it's just going to go straight to the reducer run through a nice function
update the store and make changes to our view if we request robots it's going to notice that it's a
function it's going to go into the middleware and redux thunk is gonna say.
All right first just dispatch pending to the reducer and I'll let you know when I'm done with the promise
and I'll let you know if I got any robots.
And when it returns it's going to dispatch the success go through the reducer update the store and make
changes.
Who the hell was a lot.
But if you got this far and you understand it you've pretty much gotten redux.
That's it.
That's the whole redux library.
It's very very simple.
And once you start using it a couple times and you get comfortable with it it's really really beautiful
the way everything works.
But for now let's all take a break.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.
Bye bye.